Q1. Explain what version control is and its importance in software development.
ans. git is a version control system to track every changes of my files. git allow developer to see 
     each other codes. we can change that code if needed.
     here are some of its improtance in software development:-
     1. history:- git track all the change of the code. like if we commit some code. it would be showed
     in out git hsitory.
     2. backup:- if developer accideentally delete a file ,or make a mistake they can go a previous 
     head to retore the backup.
     3. collabration:- if software development git provide you to 
     to work multiple person in one single project without interfrance the other work.



Q2. Explain the Git Workflow, including the staging area, working directory, and repository.
ans. the git workflow is a set step of stage that developer follow to manage and track changes 
effectively using git, git is a popular version control system. it's include three stages .
working directory, 2. stage and commit 3. repository
1. working directory:- first you can work our local system, edit and organise your project. when you
   initiate git repository. then it a part of working directory.
2. stage and commit:- the stage area is improtant if we add some lines first we have to stage them 
   and then commit them. It acts as a holding area for changes you want to include in the next commit. 
3.repository:- the repository known as a git repository. git store commited snapshot of your progect.
  it contain complet history of project , branch , tag and other git related data.



Q3. Explain what .gi1ignore is and why it’s important in version control
  ans:- a .gitignore file is a text file that tells Git which files and folders to ignore.
   It is usually placed in the root directory of a project. When Git sees a .gitignore file,
   it will ignore any files or folders that are listed in the file. 
   The .gitignore files are important in version control because they help to keep the repository
   clean and organized. They also prevent developers from accidentally committing unnecessary files to the repository, 
   such as log files, build artifacts, and IDE configuration files.


Q4.Briefly explain what GitHub is and how it facilitates collaboration and version control also name some 
alternatives to GitHub.
ans. github is a cloub based hosting service that help developer store manage their code, as well as
    track and control changes to their code every time.
    github facilitates collabrationa and version control in the following:-
   1. version control:- github use git, a version control system, to track change to the code. this allow
     developer to see who made what change and when, and revert previous version of code if needed.
   2.branch and pull request:- your can create multiple branch through git. it will be easy for developer
     to work our branch, or work in the same project without interfrance the other branch. then later
     we can merge branch we needed. they can create a pull request also this allow our developer to reveiw
     the changes and provide feedback before they merge.
 some of the platforms that provide the same functionality similar to github.
    1.gitlab
    2.bitbucket
    3.lauchpad


5. Describe the process of contributing to any open source project on github in step by step manner.
ans. 1. find a project to contribute to:- there are million of project you can contribute , whatever
you are interest. or type serch the project topic.
 2. read the project contribution guildelines:- most the project have contribution guildeline
 document that explain how to contribute to our project.the document tell you how to contribute the 
 project and submit the project.
 3. create a fork of the project:- the fork is a copy of the project , that you can make change without
 affecting the main code. create a fork of project to click fork button.
 4.clone a fork of your local computer:- once you have fork the project. get into your local computer.
   for using git clone link you can clone your local computer. all the fork project see in your computer.
 5. make your changes:- make some changes of your code , that you want to contribute of this project.
   make sure follow guildeline also.
 6. commit you changes:- once do your contribution then commit those changes git commit -m "some message"
    put some message to known something related changes. 
 7. push you changes to your fork:- once you have commited you changes. push them to your fork on github.
    it will show to in your github fork.
 8. create a pull request:- a pull request is a way to request that you change to be merged into the main
    codebase. to create a pull request. click the pull request button in your fork project.
 9. wait for your pull request to be reveiwed:- other developer will review your changes and provide 
    feeback. once your change are approved, they will merge into the main codebase.


6. Deploy Tailwind projects named Youtube, slack, and Gmail clones on GitHub pages and share the 
deployed link of those three. Expected output - Live hosted URL Link of your deployed respective website with 
GitHub pages.
ans. Youtube clone https://github.com/search?q=tailwind+youtube+clone&type=repositories
2. slack clone https://github.com/search?q=tailwind+slack+clone&type=repositories
3. gmail clone https://github.com/search?q=tailwind+gmail+clone&type=repositories





































